Assignment 1 - Building a Three Dimensional World
-------------------------------------------------
Due. January 27, 2017

We are going to recreate the arcade game Pulsar in 3D.
There are four parts to this assignment. These are building the world, adding
moving walls, adding gravity, and adding collision detection.

You can find videos of Pulsar on youtube by searching for arcade pulsar.


1. World Building
-----------------
Create a three dimensional world from cubes. The world is a six by six
grid of squares which are defined by pillars and walls. Build the
pillars and walls using the world array in the game engine.
The ground level for the game only needs to be one unit thick.

The pillars and external walls don’t move so they can be built once. 
The internal walls will be able to open and close.
In part four of this assignment you will animate walls opening and
closing.

Build the internal walls procedurally. Each place between two blue pillars
should have a chance of having a wall in place. Pick a reasonable probability
of there be a wall at any location so that it is possible to move around
the game world and not be stuck in a closed in area all of the time.
From the game video it looks like 20 to 25 walls might be a good
number but you should tune the system to make it playable.

Make the walls tall enough that they cannot be seen over in
first person perspective. 

In the original game it looks like each square on the grid is three by three
units where one unit is the size of the player. This is probably too small.
Experiment with different world sizes to make the game more playable.

Start the viewpoint on the ground in one corner of the maze.


2. Collision Detection
----------------------
Add collision detection so the viewpoint cannot pass into a space
which is occupied by a cube.

The viewpoint should be able to climb onto cubes which are only
one unit tall.  If the cube which is collided with does not have
another cube above it then the viewpoint should move above the cube
(it should step up on the single cube). If the object collided with
is two or more cubes tall then the viewpoint should not move on top of it.

Create a few cubes on the ground so that the collision detection and
gravity can be tested. Create a stack of one, two, and three cubes
near the starting area so the player can move to the top of the
stack of three cubes. Gravity will drop the player to the ground
once they move off the top cube.

It is probably easier to implement collision detection before gravity
because you can test collisions by moving the viewpoint into the world
objects. If you implement gravity first then the viewpoint will fall
through the ground and is difficult to control.

There are more instructions for collision detection in
Section 4 - Moving Walls.


3. Gravity
----------
Add gravity to the program so the viewpoint descends to the ground.
The rate of descent should not be too fast (e.g. 0.1 per update). 
Note that because the indices are negative, gravity is an increase in y.

Gravity operates like a collision with the ground. If gravity would
push the viewpoint into an occupied cube then it should not be be allowed
to move the viewpoint.


4. Moving Walls (object animation)
----------------------------------
Walls move by sliding into a pillar they adjacent with and then
sliding out of another location on the same pillar. One wall should move
approximately every second. Move the walls by updating the world array.
The walls should open and close at a reasonable rate so the player can
see them moving. 

If a moving wall collides with the player it should push the player
out of the way of the wall. The player should be pushed to either
side of the wall and not get pushed into the pillar as the
wall closes.

You will need to store the wall information in a data structure and
update it when the walls move.


Coding Practices
----------------
Write the code using standard stylistic practices. Use functions, 
reasonable variable names, and consistent indentation.
If the code is difficult for the TA to understand then you
will lose marks.

As usual, keep backups of your work using source control software.


Starting Code
-------------
The starting code is available on the Courselink site.
You can untar the file using tar xf filename.
All of the changes to the code can be made in the a1.c file.

Note that the graphics code may be modified for assignment 2. If you
make changes to the graphics code (in graphics.c or visible.c) then you
may have to recode the changes in assignment 2.
  

Submitting the Assignment
-------------------------
Submit the assignment using Courselink. Submit only the source code
and the makefile. Bundle the code in a tar file.

The assignments will be marked on the Macs in Thorn 2420.
If you develop your code on a different platform then it is a good
idea to put the include files in an #ifdef for that system
so they will still compile on the Macs. Test your program on the
Macs before you submit it. 

Include the graphics code with your submission. Include a makefile
that will compile the executable. Name the executable a1.
 
The TA will unpack your code and type "make". They will then try to
run an executable named "./a1".  If the make command or executing a1
does not work then you will lose a substantial number of marks.

It is always a good idea to unpack and test the file you are submitting
to be sure that what you submit actually compiles. 
 
 
 
